---
title: "ellmer 0.1.1"
url: https://github.com/tidyverse/ellmer/blob/HEAD/NEWS.md#ellmer-0-1-1
source: ellmer
date: 2026-04-13
---


## Lifecycle changes

* `option(ellmer_verbosity)` is no longer supported; instead use the standard
  httr2 verbosity functions, such as `httr2::with_verbosity()`; these now
  support streaming data.

* `chat_cortex()` has been renamed `chat_cortex_analyst()` to better
  disambiguate it from `chat_snowflake()` (which *also* uses "Cortex")
  (#275, @atheriel).

## New features

* All providers now wait for up to 60s to get the complete response. You can
  increase this with, e.g., `option(ellmer_timeout_s = 120)` (#213, #300).

* `chat_azure()`, `chat_databricks()`, `chat_snowflake()`, and
  `chat_cortex_analyst()` now detect viewer-based credentials when running on
  Posit Connect (#285, @atheriel).

* `chat_deepseek()` provides support for DeepSeek models (#242).

* `chat_openrouter()` provides support for models hosted by OpenRouter (#212).

* `chat_snowflake()` allows chatting with models hosted through Snowflake's
  [Cortex LLM REST API](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/snowflake-cortex/cortex-llm-rest-api)
  (#258, @atheriel).

* `content_pdf_file()` and `content_pdf_url()` allow you to upload PDFs to
  supported models. Models that currently support PDFs are Google Gemini and
  Claude Anthropic. With help from @walkerke and @andrie (#265).

## Bug fixes and minor improvements

* `Chat$get_model()` returns the model name (#299).

* `chat_azure()` has greatly improved support for Azure Entra ID. API keys are
  now optional and we can pick up on ambient credentials from Azure service
  principals or attempt to use interactive Entra ID authentication when
  possible. The broken-by-design `token` argument has been deprecated (it
  could not handle refreshing tokens properly), but a new `credentials`
  argument can be used for custom Entra ID support when needed instead
  (for instance, if you're trying to use tokens generated by the `AzureAuth`
  package) (#248, #263, #273, #257, @atheriel).

* `chat_azure()` now reports better error messages when the underlying HTTP
  requests fail (#269, @atheriel). It now also defaults to
  `api_version = "2024-10-21"` which includes data for structured data
  extraction (#271).

* `chat_bedrock()` now handles temporary IAM credentials better
  (#261, @atheriel) and `chat_bedrock()` gains `api_args` argument (@billsanto, #295).

* `chat_databricks()` now handles the `DATABRICKS_HOST` environment variable
  correctly whether it includes an HTTPS prefix or not (#252, @atheriel).
  It also respects the `SPARK_CONNECT_USER_AGENT` environment variable when
  making requests (#254, @atheriel).

* `chat_gemini()` now defaults to using the gemini-2.0-flash model.

* `print(Chat)` no longer wraps long lines, making it easier to read code
  and bulleted lists (#246).

