---
title: "Posit at SciPy 2025"
url: https://shiny.posit.co/blog/posts/shiny-at-scipy-2025/
source: Shiny Blog
date: 2025-07-14
---

#quarto-content>* {  padding-top: 0px;  }                              Your browser does not support the video tag.              The Shiny Team was at SciPy 2025! If you missed us at SciPy 2025 here’s what we were up to.posit shiny team at our scipy boothWe just got back from a week at SciPy 2025 and had a great time meeting and talking with folks at the conference. If you didn’t get a chance to say hi to us, you can also find us online on  GitHub or  Discord. You can also learn more about Posit at  posit.co.If you missed a tutorial or talk we have all the information below. You’ll have to wait a bit for the SciPy folks to get all the tutorials and talks uploaded to  Youtube.Talks by Posit Folks                                                                                                              Shiny for Python: Building Production-Ready Dashboards in Python                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speaker                    Daniel Chen                                                Shiny is a framework for building web applications and data dashboards in Python. In this workshop, you will see how the basic building blocks of shiny can be extended to create your own scalable production-ready python applications.At the end of this course you will be able to:Build a Shiny app in Python,How to integrate LLMs that can transparently work on your dataWrite unit tests and end-to-end tests for your shiny application,Deploy and share your application (for free!).                                                                                                          SciPy Talk Page                                                                                                      View Slides                                                                                                                                                                                Keeping LLMs in Their Lane: Focused AI for Data Science and Research                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speaker                    Joe Cheng                                                LLMs are powerful, flexible, easy-to-use… and often wrong. This is a dangerous combination, especially for data analysis and scientific research, where correctness and reproducibility are core requirements.Fortunately, it turns out that by carefully applying LLMs to narrower use cases, we can turn them into surprisingly reliable assistants that accelerate and enhance, rather than undermine, scientific work.This is not just theory—I’ll showcase working examples of seamlessly integrating LLMs into analytic workflows, helping data scientists build interactive, intelligent applications without needing to be web developers. You’ll see firsthand how keeping LLMs focused lets us leverage their “intelligence” in a way that’s practical, rigorous, and reproducible.This talk is for Python data scientists, researchers, and developers looking to integrate AI into their work in a practical, responsible way—or skeptical that it’s even possible.                                                                                                          SciPy Talk Page                                                                                                      View Slides                                                                                                                                                                                User guides: engaging new users, delighting old ones                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speaker                    Michael Chow                                                User guides are the piece you often hit right after clicking the “Learn” or “Get Started” button in a package’s documentation. They’re responsible for onboarding new users, and providing a learning path through a package. Surprisingly, while pieces of documentation like the API Reference tend to be the same, the design of user guides tend to differ across packages.In this talk, I’ll discuss how to design an effective user guide for open source software. I’ll explain how the guides for Polars, DuckDB, and FastAPI balance working end-to-end like a course, with being browsable like a reference.                                                                                                          SciPy Talk Page                                                                                                      View Slides                                                                                                                                                                                From One Notebook to Many Reports: Automating with Quarto                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speaker                    Charlotte Wickham                                                Would you rather read a “Climate summary” or a “Climate summary for exactly where you live”? Producing documents that tailor your scientific results to an individual or their situation increases understanding, engagement, and connection. But, producing many reports can be onerous.If you are looking for a way to automate producing many reports, or you produce reports like this but find yourself in copy-and-paste hell, come along to learn how Quarto solves this problem with parameterized reports - you create a single Python notebook, but you generate many beautiful customized PDFs.                                                                                                          SciPy Talk Page                                                                                                      View Slides                                                                    No matching items
